Ground. Yeah. I'm absolutely fascinated by mushrooms. I had, uh,
Paul Stamets on the podcast. I saw, I saw that.
One. How great is that guy? That's super cool. Was mushroom hat. Yeah.
<laugh> that was amazing. I got one. If you want one.
That's awesome. I got, he gave me two mushrooms. That's amazing.
What am I gonna do with two well case one breaks? Yeah,
<laugh> I have an extra mushroom hat, but that's.
A really cool documentary actually. Um, it's called know your mushrooms.
I think it's by Ron better know by, by Ron man. And he, he, he,
he travels along with these mushroom hunters, uh, up, I think a lot,
a lot of it's in Oregon and up the coast of California down in New Mexico,
but they're, they're professional forgers that then go and sell these mushrooms.
Uh, but they track these forgers and it's such a cool movie. That's.
Interesting. What I was gonna say is you better know mushrooms,
cuz they'll kill you if you don't.
That that's the thing, man. It's like, you know,
my first experiencing forging for mushrooms,
I was like an apprent chef at this restaurant.
And the chef comes in and was like, Hey, check these out. And I was like, whoa,
like what the hell are these? And he is like, oh, they're morels.
Like I found them mountain biking. And there's this stigma, you know,
like as a kid, like your parents are like, Don, don't eat those,
don't touch those. They're poisonous. They'll kill you. And it's like, okay,
well then you just, you just have this idea. Well,
mushrooms come from the grocery store. Well it's like, no, they grow,
they come in the wild and you know, that's, that's like my thing with meat is I,
I teach my kids like meat doesn't come from the grocery store. It's not,
it's not on a styrofoam package. That's not where it comes from. It's an animal.
Yeah. Um, and, and yeah, and it's just like, you know,
mushrooms own the wild and they're just, they're crazy. They, they,
this like micro, micro, uh.
Microrisal yeah. It's it's Michael riser relationship with the, uh,
animals or with the, uh, the trees rather. Um,
do you know the story of the Amita mascara?
Uh, I know what they are. Uh, I don't know the story. The Amita.
Mascara is the most fascinating one to me. Cause that's the one that looks like,
looks like Santa Claus or the Mario with white washroom. Yeah.
That is the subject of a book by a guy named John Marco Allegro,
who was one of the head scholars, uh,
for deciphering the dead sea scrolls.
He deciphered the dead sea scrolls for 14 years. He was an ordained minister,
but he was also in his study of fi became agnostic. And he sort,
when he started realizing that there was all these different religions that had
similar stories and he was, you know, found all these, uh,
different connections. And he was trying,
trying to like figure out what the origins of all these stories were well after
studying the dead sea scrolls for,
I think it was 14 years before he wrote this book.
He decided that all of Christianity was a massive
misunderstanding. And what it was originally about was these stories,
these collection of stories that were about fertility rituals and
psychedelic mushroom use <laugh> and he traced the word Jesus back to an
ancient Sumerian word that was a mushroom covered in God
semen. And that when God would come on the earth, that's what rain was.
Rain was God coming on the earth and that these mushrooms would rise up out of
the ground. They would eat them and trip their balls off. Right. <laugh>.
That's a crazy story.
So me, you gotta think, yeah. People that were foraging for food,
especially back when there was no agriculture, right? I mean, it was,
it was touch and go. You, you could easily starve to death. You,
I mean a bad winter, you know, a drought, people would starve to death.
It was very, very common. So they would take foraging,
extremely sea areas and they knew what they could eat and they knew what they
couldn't eat. Well.
They knew that there was a relationship between Carnes trees and coniferous
trees would grow these weird looking shiny red and
white mushrooms under 'em. That's what coniferous trees is. Pine trees.
That's what we use for Christmas trees. Yep. Those red and white packages. They,
they are like the shiny packages underneath the Christmas tree.
They are the color of Santa Claus. Yeah. They're common in Siberia.
They're eaten constantly by caribou. Caribou are reindeer.
Reindeer are addicted to these,
to the point where when people are having psychedelic mushroom rituals and they
go outside to take a leak,
the CA will knock them over to get to the Amita Maia in the
sand <laugh> cause they smell the Amita Maia in the.
And one of the ways these guys trip their balls off is they eat the mushroom and
then they drink their own urine. They have that's crazy second process of this.
Here's where it gets even crazier in the times in Siberia where it,
him extremely snowy when the,
the shaman would visit the way they would get into the house is through the
chimney because the door would be snowed in.
So they would climb in through the chimney. I mean,
there's so many parallels to Santa Claus and to Christianity that this
one mushroom that they think was a massive part of shamanistic rituals.
There it is right there. This is this root off the red nose reindeer. Yeah.
Yeah. <laugh> oh, that is root so crazy. I'm sure that's such a cool story.
Oh dude, it's crazy.
So he wrote this book called the sacred mushroom in the cross that was bought
out by the Catholic church. This I have to verify. Um,
but I do know that they stopped production of it.
I don't know if it was bought out by the Catholic church. That's always been,
what's been told to me,
but I do know that they stopped production of it forever. Um,
he came out with another book called the dead sea scrolls and the Christian
myth, which is still available then more recently,
like really recently within the last decade, uh,
a guy named Jan Irvin republished, um,
the John Marco Allegro books with permission from his family.
I think I'm might have actually been one of those things where when a book is
over 25 years old, it becomes like public domain or something like that too.
But this, this book and this,
this story behind it is incredibly fascinating.
And what he's basically saying is that,
and it makes sense if you were living thousands of years ago and you stumbled
upon these psychedelic mushrooms and you took them, you would experience God.
You literally would think that that psychedelic state was you communicating with
God. They would wanna hide those from the Romans.
So they hid them in parables and stories.
And he explains what the original meaning of all these parables and stories are
because of course you're going from ancient Hebrew,
which is an extremely complicated language that also involves numbers.
The letters are also numbers,
and then that's translated to Latin and to Greek and then eventually to English.
So a lot is lost in that translation.
So it really takes a linguist and a,
and a biblical scholar to kind of understand whether an,
not what this guy is saying is correct. I'm obviously not one of those.
So I'm just talking <laugh> but it's a, there's so many parallels.
It's almost like how could it be just coincidental that Santa Claus is red and
white,
that Santa Claus likes reindeers that the Christmas tree is something that we
use in the presents are under the Christmas tree that Santa Claus lives in the
north pole with is Siberia,
which is where caribou live and which is where these mushrooms are very common.
I mean, there's so many parallels. It's really kind of crazy. That's cool. Yeah.
It's a great book. Anybody. I,
I really highly recommend it because it's one of those books where you just
gotta, you read a few chapters. You gotta go.
I think I may have to go back over that again. You go over it again.
Cause it's so it's, it's so freaky. Very cool.
But I've stumbled upon those in the wild, those Amita.
So I've never found those and there's like, those there's like,
you have to cook them first. You can't eat them raw. You have to boil them.
Yeah. We made tea outta them. They will make you sick.
Apparently if you don't do it. Right. Um, but yeah, no, I, I forged more for,
uh, more's are my favorite. Uh, Chan's obviously awesome.
Like awesome culinary mushroom. Uh.
What's that you yellow one that grows on trees. It's like a thick.
Uh, chicken of the woods. Yes. That one that one's and it tastes like chicken.
It is unbelievable. I, that, one's amazing. It's really funky. Uh, we found,
I was walking with the kids in a park downtown Toronto,
and I look over and there's this massive it's on my Instagram. Uh,
massive yellow kind of looks like goo growing on this tree.
And it was a premature the woods and it just looked like this blob. And then if,
if I were to leave it, it would start to kind of, uh,
shelf out into like shelf kind of mushrooms. Um, and so I,
I left it for like a week and went back and harvested it. And it's like,
it's like tender, juicy chicken flavor. It is bizarre.
Oh, that's kind of cool. So you, you were just like hoping nobody else saw it.
Yeah. And.
It was like, and it was in like a really public, uh, it park. And I was like,
oh man, like I better get this before someone else finds it. <laugh> well, how.
Many people would know in a public park in Toronto? Yeah.
Uh, there's a few there's, there's definitely few I've.
I've kind of walked up to ladies, like picking herbs and stuff. And I was like,
Hey, like what are you doing?
And they just kinda looked at me and kind of went away.
They didn't wanna share their knowledge with me here. It is. There it is. Oh,
so that's the it's bizarre man. Look at you like.
Zoo zookeeper, zoo.
Andrew. I was like those. I was so pumped. I was so excited.
<Laugh> the face you made? There's another, you look like Chris there.
That's right. Doesn't he look a little like Delia. That's hilarious. Oh,
that's so.
Cool, man. Yeah. Oh, so, and there's like a little tiny one, uh, you know,
below it, but yeah. Why don't they.
Grow on trees?
I don't know. I think, well that one,
you can see the bark is like de deter rating. So again, it's, it's, uh,
it's feeding off the decaying, uh, treat.
Wow. That's oh.
Look how badass looks. So if that,
if you actually go and I found ones like that too, if you go and, and,
and harvest those, they're really Woody by that time. And they're,
they're kind of little too tough to, to eat. Oh, really? Um, so yeah, you want,
you want to get 'em when they're kind of younger like that.
So is there a color change?
Um, I, I get, I guess when they, when they're older, they get a bit more orange.
Yeah. Uh, from that kind of yellow premature,
do you see that one where there's like yellow? Yeah. Those are like perfect.
Yeah.
Right there. Perfect. Yeah. Oh, wow. That looks like almost like cauliflower.
Totally. Yeah. It's really, really neat. Wow. It's fascinating. You know, the,
the, the mushroom world is, is, uh, super.
Cool. Do you know, they breathe air?
I did not know that they breathe air and they breathe out carbon dioxide. Yeah.
They're closer to animals than they are to vegetables. That's really cool. Yeah.
They're weird. Fungus is a weird thing, man. Yeah. Well, and.
A lot of it's like, um, misunderstood. Well, I, I guess.